# Example/demo project base with Spring Data JPA and Sakila database initialized with TestContainers

The `Sakila database` is a sample database schema and data that was originally developed by MySQL. It is intended to provide a standard schema that can be used for examples and tests. 

This project is a starting point for simple examples/demos that need a somewhat realistic dataset. It provides Spring Data JPA based backend and uses TestContainers to initialize a database with the Sakila test database schema and data. It automatically starts [Sakila DB docker images](https://github.com/sakiladb) that come with pre-populated database. Delete the local container if you want to reset the database.

The DB entities where autogenerated using IntelliJ IDEA's JPA plugin with some manual modifications. There are also some handcrafted entities and repositories for views.

## Branches for your favorite database

 * `postgresql` - PostgreSQL database
 * `mysql` - MySQL database

Trying to keep other differences than testcontainer configurations to the minimum.

## Requirements

* Docker
* Java 21+
* Maven
* Strongly suggested: JRebel or HotswapAgent (Hibernate :-) )

## Usage

 * Fork the repository for your own needs
 * Import to your favourite IDE
 * Make sure you have Docker running
 * Run the `TestDemoApplication` class from the **src/test/java** folder. This will start the Spring Boot application and initialize the database with TestContainers.
 * Utilize the ["entity explorer"](http://localhost:8080/entityexplorer/) from the test application to browse the database state and to make limited edits during development.
 * Ready? Implement your demo app to the **src/main/java** folder!

## TODO, ideas for further development of the starter

 * Add some generic filtering for grids
 * Inserting new entities and deleting existing ones
 * Add missing entities/repositories
 * Add some service classes
 * Cleanup for the "entity explorer code" on the test application
 * Branches for different database types (currently only MySQL and PostgreSQL)
